<div id="page">

<div id="main" class="aui-page-panel">

<div class="aui-page-panel-nav">

<div class="aui-navgroup-inner">

<div id="tabs-nav" class="aui-tabs horizontal-tabs">

  - [**Contents**](#tabs-navigation)
  - [**Search**](#tabs-search)

<div id="tabs-navigation" class="tabs-pane active-pane" data-current-page-id="38207496">

</div>

<div id="tabs-search" class="tabs-pane">

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="section aui-page-panel-content">

<div id="main-header">

<div id="breadcrumb-section">

1.  <span> [Brightside CLI](index.html) </span>

</div>

# <span id="title-text"> Brightside CLI : Legal Notices </span>

</div>

<div id="content" class="view">

<div class="page-metadata">

</div>

<div id="main-content" class="wiki-content group">

This Documentation, which includes embedded help systems and
electronically distributed materials, (hereinafter referred to as the
“Documentation”) is for your informational purposes only and is
subject to change or withdrawal by CA at any time.

This Documentation may not be copied, transferred, reproduced,
disclosed, modified or duplicated, in whole or in part, without the
prior written consent of CA. This Documentation is confidential and
proprietary information of CA and may not be disclosed by you or used
for any purpose other than as may be permitted in (i) a separate
agreement between you and CA governing your use of the CA software to
which the Documentation relates; or (ii) a separate confidentiality
agreement between you and CA.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, if you are a licensed user of the
software product(s) addressed in the Documentation, you may print or
otherwise make available a reasonable number of copies of the
Documentation for internal use by you and your employees in connection
with that software, provided that all CA copyright notices and legends
are affixed to each reproduced copy.

The right to print or otherwise make available copies of the
Documentation is limited to the period during which the applicable
license for such software remains in full force and effect. Should the
license terminate for any reason, it is your responsibility to certify
in writing to CA that all copies and partial copies of the Documentation
have been returned to CA or destroyed.

TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, CA PROVIDES THIS
DOCUMENTATION “AS IS” WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, INCLUDING WITHOUT
LIMITATION, ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE, OR NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT WILL CA BE LIABLE TO
YOU OR ANY THIRD PARTY FOR ANY LOSS OR DAMAGE, DIRECT OR INDIRECT, FROM
THE USE OF THIS DOCUMENTATION, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, LOST
PROFITS, LOST INVESTMENT, BUSINESS INTERRUPTION, GOODWILL, OR LOST DATA,
EVEN IF CA IS EXPRESSLY ADVISED IN ADVANCE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
LOSS OR DAMAGE.

The use of any software product referenced in the Documentation is
governed by the applicable license agreement and such license agreement
is not modified in any way by the terms of this notice.

The manufacturer of this Documentation is CA.

Provided with “Restricted Rights.” Use, duplication or disclosure by the
United States Government is subject to the restrictions set forth in FAR
Sections 12.212, 52.227-14, and 52.227-19(c)(1) - (2) and DFARS Section
252.227-7014(b)(3), as applicable, or their successors.

Copyright ©  2018 CA. All rights reserved. All trademarks, trade names,
service marks, and logos referenced herein belong to their respective
companies.

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

  - <span id="n-417294290">[Brightside CLI](index.html)</span>
      - <span id="n-417294291">[Release
        Notes](Release-Notes_417294291.html)</span>
    <!-- end list -->
      - <span id="n-429364995">[Installing](Installing_429364995.html)</span>
          - <span id="n-433363261">[Overview of the z/OS Management
            Facility Configuration Process](433363261.html)</span>
              - <span id="n-433363262">[Configure z/OS Management
                Facility](433363262.html)</span>
            <!-- end list -->
              - <span id="n-433363263">[Configure z/OS Management
                Facility Security](433363263.html)</span>
            <!-- end list -->
              - <span id="n-433363264">[Configure z/OS Management
                Facility Cloud Provisioning](433363264.html)</span>
            <!-- end list -->
              - <span id="n-433363265">[Configure z/OS Management
                Facility Cloud Provisioning
                Security](433363265.html)</span>
        <!-- end list -->
          - <span id="n-429364999">[Install Brightside
            CLI](Install-Brightside-CLI_429364999.html)</span>
        <!-- end list -->
          - <span id="n-430335233">[Validate
            Installation](Validate-Installation_430335233.html)</span>
              - <span id="n-433363269">[Identify and Correct Problems
                Detected by the Validate Profile
                Command](Identify-and-Correct-Problems-Detected-by-the-Validate-Profile-Command_433363269.html)</span>
    <!-- end list -->
      - <span id="n-429365002">[Using](Using_429365002.html)</span>
          - <span id="n-429365003">[How to Display Brightside CLI
            Help](How-to-Display-Brightside-CLI-Help_429365003.html)</span>
        <!-- end list -->
          - <span id="n-447395688">[Brightside CLI Command
            Groups](Brightside-CLI-Command-Groups_447395688.html)</span>
        <!-- end list -->
          - <span id="n-433363274">[Enable and Disable Experimental
            Commands](Enable-and-Disable-Experimental-Commands_433363274.html)</span>
        <!-- end list -->
          - <span id="n-441193419">[Brightside CLI
            Scenarios](Brightside-CLI-Scenarios_441193419.html)</span>
              - <span id="n-441193420">[Submit a Job and Print Job
                Output](Submit-a-Job-and-Print-Job-Output_441193420.html)</span>
    <!-- end list -->
      - <span id="n-38207496">[Legal
        Notices](Legal-Notices_38207496.html)</span>

<div id="footer">

<div class="section footer-body">

Copyright © 2018 CA. All rights reserved.

<div class="footer-logo">

</div>

Document generated on Mar 01, 2018 17:24.

</div>

</div>

</div>
